Some time ago, we interviewed two long-time members of the United States Bethel family.
Brother Gerald Grizzle, a helper to the personnel committee, and Brother Sam Robertson.
These two brothers served as traveling overseers for many years prior to coming to Bethel.
Brother Grizzle has served at Bethel since 1978, and Brother Robertson has served here for nearly 20 years.
They've been assigned by the governing body to assist them in shepherding the United States Bethel family.
Shepherding the Bethel family, you may ask, after all, Bethelites don't have any stressing trials.
Listen to what our dear brothers have to say.
Brother Grizzle, what are some of the challenges that members of the Bethel family face?
The worldwide Bethel family is a representation of the Brotherhood.
By that, I mean that just as First Peter chapter 5 verse 9 says,
they face the same kind of sufferings being experienced by the entire association of our brothers in the world.
Some deal with the serious health problems, but they continue to serve.
Others have concerns over aging parents, and some have to give up their beloved Bethel service.
Still others contend with bounce of depression, but they spirit of these dear brothers and sisters impels them to have the determination not to allow these challenges to dominate them.
Rather, their faith in Jehovah's strengthens their resolve to focus on their assignments.
Thank you for that insight, Brother Grizzle. Brother Robertson, how have you been able to comfort such ones?
When we find out a Bethelite is going through a tragedy, there are four things that we do.
Number one, we pray for them and develop specific spiritual points according to their needs.
And that's before we make the call.
Number two, when we actually make the call, we really listen.
And I don't mean we just listen with our ears.
We try to listen with our hearts. We try to feel what they feel. We try to have compassion.
Number three, when we use God's word to remind them they're not facing their crisis alone, this is very effective.
As an example, we called on a brother recently who was going through a great trial, and we shared among other things Exodus chapter three, and verse seven and twelve.
Let's take a look at that.
I have certainly seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and I've heard their outcry because of those who forced them to work.
And note the ending point here. It's very beautiful. Jehovah doesn't say I know how my people feel.
He says, I will know the pains of my people, and then in giving assurance, dealing with Moses, fearing to go before Pharaoh, in verse twelve, just the a part to this, he said, I will prove to be with you.
Just a few words, but so powerful where Jehovah is guaranteeing that he's going to give them undeniable proof that he's backing them up and never moving away from them one inch.
And this gives us comfort.
Number four, before we conclude the call, we have an ending prayer with them, and we use their names, and this is very comforting since we're calling on Jehovah, the great shepherd.
At first, Thessalonians 5, 14, Paul says we urge you, brothers, to speak consolingly to those who are depressed, to support the weak, be patient toward all.
And this is exactly what we're trying to do.
Thanks for sharing those thoughts. Very interesting.
Brothers, Grisel and Robertson, how has comforting others affected you? Brother Grisel, first please.
During these challenging times, I sense Jehovah's love for his people. Over the years, I have seen and experienced his care when facing difficult times.
Some years ago, I lost my mother, my brother, and my father in death, all within a year.
And in 2017, I lost my dear wife, Bonnie, after we had served Jehovah together for nearly 65 years.
With my prayer, research, and love of the friends, Jehovah has comforted me.
And now, thankfully, I have been able to offer encouragement to others.
Very touching, brother Grisel. Thank you. Brother Robertson, how has comforting others affected you?
One of the most memorable challenges was while my wife, Linda, and I were in the circuit work several years ago.
I lost my voice. I had to have surgery on my vocal cords, and for six weeks, I could not talk.
For a circuit overseer, that's like being a bird without its wings.
I wrote more notes in that six weeks than I had written in my whole life.
But in spite of that, and along with other situations and tragedies that we face similar to Gerald's, Jehovah has seen us through them all.
And let me say it's been a real pleasure to share Jehovah's comfort with so many.
And as we do, we see the governing body's interest in all of Jehovah's people, including those with added responsibility.
They truly reflect Jehovah's feelings as the God of all comfort.
Well, thank you, brothers. We really appreciate your comments.
And more than the shepherding that you do is the example that you have set in enduring trials,
experiencing Jehovah's comfort and in comforting others. Thank you so much.